# MRI-Brain-Tumor-Detection : Brain tumors are classified as primary (originating in the brain) or secondary (metas-tasizing from elsewhere). Gliomas are the most prevalent malignant primary brain
tumor in adults, accounting for 80%.According to the WHO, gliomas are classified into four grades: low grade (LGG) (grades 1-2), which are less prevalent and have low blood concentration and sluggish growth, and high grade (HGG) (grades 3-4), which have rapid growth and aggressiveness.

The edematous/invaded tissue surrounding the tumor, the necrotic core (filled with fluid), and the enhancing and non-enhancing tumor (solid) core. T1-weighted, postcontrast T1-weighted, and Fluid-Attenuated Inversion Recovery(FLAIR) MRI modalities are extensively utilized to identify the diagnosis, therapy, and evaluation of the disease because they reflect the diverse biological characteristics of the tumor.
These MRI techniques facilitate tumor analysis, but require the laborious and time-consuming manual identification of tumor regions. As a result of deep learning models in computer vision, approaches for the autonomous segmentation of tumor regions have emerged. In an effort to automate the process of segmenting tumor regions, a novel segmentation framework including efficient, contemporary deep learning blocks is provided. 
In This application we have using the BRATS-2020 dataset, Early diagnosis of brain tumor can help one avoiding the painful consequences as well as the life risk. Eventually, this diagnosis is the most crucial part since manual delineation of tumor form brain MRI is quite time consuminig and laborious also. A number of advanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) techniques that include Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI), MR Spectroscopy (MRS) and Perfusion MR are used for the analysis of brain tumor through MRI. Moreover, A variety of image-processing techniques and methods have been used for the diagnosis and treatment of a brain
tumor. Segmentation is the fundamental step in image processing techniques and is used to extract the infected region of brain tissue from MRIs.

Deep learning approaches have achieved state-of-the-art performance for automatic brain tumor segmentation using multi-model MRIs. CNN is a highly effective method for picture ecognition and prediction. CNN is predominantly employed for brain tumor seg-mentation, classification, and survival time prediction.
